# Image Intellisense

## Problem
1. We take a lot of images and the get lost in the sea of images.
2. We want to be able to search for images by text and not go through the complex process of going through each image and  tagging them
3. Fast retrieval of images.
4. Scalable to millions of images.

## Tech comes to the rescue
1. CLIP is a model released by OpenAI that brings both images and text into the same embedding space.
2. It is one of the key enablers of the image generation era.

## Implimentation
1. The basic design comprises of an image processing pipeline which on addition of an image, first uploads it to a storage and then triggers a pipeline which passes through the clip model to create an embedding and stored in a vector database.
2. During a query, the text is also embedded and then a vector similarity search is performed over the database to retrieve the most relevant images.
3. The images are then returned to the user.

## High Level Design
1. The Upload service:
- A simple server that accepts an image, stores it in a disk and returns the image url.
2. The embedding pipeline:
- A server that accepts the image url and creates embedding from CLIP
- Stores the embedding in a vector database
- Since the embedding creation is a costly operation, it can be run in the background with the help of a message queue.
3. The search service:
- Accepts a query text and passes it through CLPI to get its embedding.
- Performs a vector similarity search with the embedding over the database and returns the most relevant images.
4. A functional frontend to upload and search images.

## Tech Stack
1. For the frontend, we will be using vanilla HTML and JS.
2. We need a gateway service through which all requests will be proxied.
3. We will be using NodeJS with Express for the gateway.
4. For the vectorization, we will be using a FastAPI app that will be used to both vectorize the images and text query.
5. For the upload service, we will be using a FastAPI server which will accept base64 images and return a URL of the image.
6. For the image retreival service, we will be using a Go server which will retrieve the image from disk and return the image.
7. For the queueing system, we will use redis as it is a good fit for our use case.
8. For the vector database, we will be using Qdrant since it has a good reputation of being fast and internally written in rust.
